# SDLC

What are the benefits of agile, over waterfall?

Delivery to the customer more regularly, so there are more opportunities to
deliver the correct product. Iterative also can be more satisfying for teams as
we deliver features more regularly which are used immiediately.

What is Kanban?

Kanban is a well-known Agile management methodology. To use the Kanban
framework, your team will implement a philosophy of continuous improvement,
where work items are “pulled” from a product backlog into a steady flow of work.
The Kanban framework comes to life via Kanban boards, a form of visual project
management that help your team visualize work moving through stages. Learn more
about the Kanban methodology and how you can use it on your team.

Kanban board are typically cleared from right to left, ensuring nothing stays on
the board too long as this can create debt. The longer something stays on the
board, its more likely to become outdated, harder to deliver and will take more
time to revisist than complete it after initial refinement.

What is Scrum?

Scrum is an agile framework for managing and organizing complex projects,
primarily in software development. It provides a lightweight, iterative approach
that promotes collaboration, transparency, and adaptability within a
cross-functional team. Here are some key aspects of Scrum:

Roles: Scrum defines three primary roles: Product Owner: Represents the
stakeholders and defines the product vision, prioritizes the backlog, and
ensures that the team delivers value to the customer. Scrum Master: Facilitates
the Scrum process, removes obstacles, and helps the team adhere to Scrum
principles and practices. Development Team: Cross-functional team members
responsible for delivering the product increments.

Sprints: Scrum operates in fixed-length iterations called sprints, typically
lasting two to four weeks. Each sprint involves a time-boxed period in which a
set of prioritized work items,
